This document is collaboratively edited. Pull requests welcome.

== Why Mastercoins Have Value

It’s worth addressing the specific use case which is the poster-child
for App Coins, Mastercoin. It’s the first major project to use this
model, and arguably the most well-known.

From the very beginning, the Mastercoin model hasou always been "`build
useful features on top of Bitcoin, and make each feature use mastercoins
in some way`". For mastercoins to have value, the following two
conditions must be true:

. The Master Protocol must be used.
. The features that make Master Protocol useful are enabled by
Mastercoin.

If people need mastercoins, they will have value. The value of
mastercoins is therefore expected to have a direct correlation to how
useful the Master Protocol is, and also to how well each feature
fulfills the promise of using mastercoins.

Following is a high level overview of each Master Protocol feature in
https://github.com/mastercoin-MSC/spec/blob/master/README.md[our spec],
and how each feature uses mastercoins (some features described below are
not implemented yet):

. User-created coins/tokens and distributed exchange ..1. Can optionally
use mastercoins for fundraising ..2. Every user coin trades against
Mastercoin on the distributed exchange* ..3. Mastercoin is the only exit
to bitcoin using the distributed exchange. This means if you have a user
coin and want Bitcoin, you must either get a centralized exchange to
list your coin, or use Mastercoin ..4. Properties may be promoted (get
preferential placement) in Mastercoin client default listings by burning
Mastercoins
. Betting and data-feeds (uncensorable betting on anything imaginable)
..1. Mastercoin, as the "`currency of the realm`" is the currency for
placing bets*
. Distributed e-commerce (decentralized eBay) ..1. Mastercoin, as the
"`currency of the realm`" is the currency for buying and selling
physical goods* ..2. Certain amounts of Mastercoin are burned by the
reputation/feedback system
. Security features (savings addresses, rate limited addresses) ..1.
Apply to all Mastercoin-derived currency and not just Mastercoin, but
contribute to the overall utility of the ecosystem
. Pegged currencies (coins which maintain stable values due to a
protocol-managed escrow fund) ..1. Holding mastercoins in escrow to back
pegged currencies will have the effect of removing certain amounts of
MSC from circulation, thus increasing the competition for the remaining
MSC which is in active circulation for other features.

*To the extent other currencies are allowed in these roles, there may be
a small fee, burning a small amount of Mastercoin.

Why Mastercoin Will Have Value

Let’s focus mainly on how mastercoins are needed because Mastercoin is
implementing features that Bitcoin just doesn’t have, and to implement
those features you _must_ have a unit of account available.

** Properties may be promoted (get preferential placement) in Mastercoin
client default listings by burning Mastercoins

This sounds like the Twister (3) proof-of-work incentive - promoted
tweets - and again I see no reason why we wouldn’t see clients just turn
the promotions off for being spam.

** Distributed e-commerce (uncensorable e-bay) I’d take this out; I
can’t see any reason why OpenBazaar won’t do this better than Master
coin using just direct person-to-person Bitcoin payments.

** Datastreams It’s worth pointing out that because the Mastercoin
decentralized exchange is public the exchange itself can be an honest
and accurate source of pricing information.(4) Unlike Colored Coins this
exchange can be automatically acted upon by Mastercoin transactions.
(though equally hybrid systems can do this in an auditable way, see
below)

== See also

. https://github.com/DavidJohnstonCEO/TheValueofAppCoins[Why Appcoins
Have Value]
. http://blog.mastercoin.org/2014/06/11/mastercoin-is-for-burning/[Mastercoin
is for Burning]
